ADOKF HITLER: MY PART IN HIS DOWNFALL by Spike Milligan

1971. Penguin. Paperback.

I've owned this book for ages and as a child used to look at my
family's copy; with a photo of Spike Milligan defaced with a
Hitler/Chaplin moustache. On a trip to Tasmania in 2023 I went to a
nothing secondhand booksale that turned out to have one treasure in
it; a boxed set of the seven books of Milligan's Memoirs for just
$10. I've now read the first one and very much enjoyed reading it.

Milligan envisaged his war memoirs as a trilogy, in the end it became
seven books. It joins the Foundation Trilogy (seven books) and Hitch
Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy trilogy (five books) in being a trilogy
of more than three. In Science Fiction especially there's a tradition
of successful novels turning into epic trilogies. "Dune" probably has
five or six Frank Herbert books but I'm unsure if it was ever called a
trilogy per se.

It seems that Foundation might be a trilogy and some prequels and some
sequels, weirdly similar to the Star Wars movies.

The back cover copy of Adolf Hitler: My Part in His Downfall is my
favourite book blurb of all time. Here it is.

##################################################
                HITLARIOUS!

  'At Victoria Station the R.T.O gave me a
    travel warrant, a white feather and a
   picture of Hitler marked "This is your
  enemy". I searched every compartment, but
     hw wasn't on the train . . .'


   Spike Millgan's on the march, blitzing
  friend and foe alike with his uproarious
 recollections of army life from enlistment to
    the landing at Algiers in 1943.

  Bathos, pathos, gales of drunken laughter,
    and insane military goonery explode in
       superlative Milliganese.

   'It is the most irreverent, hilarious book
    about the war that I have ever read'
       - Sunday Express

##################################################

As I said, Penguin's best back cover copy that I know of, and that
Sunday Express reviewer certainly got it right.

There's usually an excellent joke every two pages which is a very good
hit rate. For years my favourite gag was the final one; where there's
an accident immediately before going into action - "Next time it would
be for real". A new favourite is this: The Russians were advancing on
all fronts. Where did they get all the money??

There's a famous humorous World War I "everyman soldier in the army"
book, The Good Soldier Svjek. I tried reading it once or twice but it
was so slow that I threw my copy down a waste disposal chute in
Singapore. Milligan's memoirs are much more enjoyable and are at no
risk of the same treatment.

I'll make these memoirs my "go-to cheer-me-up" books for 2024's
reading, I expect I'll knock over one a month and have them done by
June.

                                             1st January 2024

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
