Flash Boys author says Hollywood won't adapt his book with an Asian lead

From The Big Short to Moneyball, Michael Lewis is no stranger to
having his books adapted into films. But the author says that it's
unlikely his 2014 book Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt will ever make
it to the big screen - because Hollywood is hesitant to cast a film
with an Asian lead actor.

Lewis spoke Saturday at the National Book Festival in Washington,
D.C., where he told Washington Post writer Joel Achenbach that despite
past Hollywood interest, a potential Flash Boys movie is unlikely to
get off the ground because his main character, real-life IEX CEO Brad
Katsuyama, is of Asian descent.

"Right now it's close to dead," Lewis told the audience. "The problem
was revealed in the Sony hack. There were emails back and forth about
how impossible it was to make a movie with an Asian lead. The problem
was Brad Katsuyama. They've gotten to the point where they're nervous
about making an Asian guy a white guy. Decades ago, they weren't. They
would have just done that. But they don't think there's a well-enough
known Asian male actor. Which I think is crazy."

Back in 2014, Aaron Sorkin signed on to write a film version of Flash
Boys, but the project has since fizzled. Flash Boys follows a group of
Wall Street employees, including Katsuyama, who discovered and exposed
the controversial practice of high-frequency trading.

Lewis' comments come as the scrutiny over Hollywood whitewashing have
mounted, with projects like Aloha, Doctor Strange, and Ghost in the
Shell coming under fire for casting white actors as Asian
characters. In August, Ed Skrein left the upcoming Hellboy reboot
after the backlash over the fact that he was cast to play a
Japanese-American character.
