LIVE AND LET DIE by Ian Fleming

2004. (1954) Penguin Modern Classics. Paperback.

In May I finished Casino Royale and suggested I'd do a sweep through
the James Bond books this year but it's taken until late October to
finish the second book, Live and Let Die. It was a fast enough book to
read once I started it. Perhaps two more James Bond books will be read
before 2023 draws to a close; Diamonds are Forever and From Russia
With Love. Moonraker is the third book but I gave that an adult
reading in 2020.

Live and Let Die feels about 50 pages too long and not a lot happens
in the book. The first scenes are in New York and Harlem, Bond steals
Solitaire and avoids getting killed when his train carriage to St
Petersburg, Florida is shot up, then the finale in Jamaica (where
Fleming wrote most of the James Bond books).

The 1970s film of Live and Let Die, introducing Roger Moore as James
Bond, is so much better. It rides on the Blaxploitation wave of "Shaft"
and other 70s movies. A heroin/opium plot is substituted for the
book's gold coin smuggling racket. There's Q gadgets in the movie
compared to a simple explosive mine in the book. Plus the awesome
theme song by Paul Mc Cartney, whose concert I am going to this Friday
night by a nice coincidence.

Apparently the Bond producers stood firm on an interracial kiss
between Roger Moore and a black woman, which caused the film not to be
shown in some cinemas in the Deep South of the US and cost them some
money.

The sensitivity readers would have a lot of work to do with this
book. There's two pages of Harlem Negro patois that the book could do
without and the Blacks are written about admiringly, but as from a
different species.

The more James Bond I read, the more I consider the books are very
much of their time, and haven't dated well.

                                        24th October 2023.

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread