SOMEBODY'S FOOL by Richard Russo.

2023. Allen & Unwin. Paperback.

Richard Russo is my favourite living comic novelist. I got
accidentally introduced to him when my brother Grahame gifted me his
second novel, "The Risk Pool", in the Vintage Contemporaries imprint.
His fourth novel, Straight Man, is an excellent University satire and
the US equivalent of Lucky Jim, but his third novel, Nobody's Fool,
was my favourite, indeed I took it with me to China to re-read in a
trip there with Eu Lin in 2001.

Nobody's Fool spawned a movie and a sequel, Everybody's Fool, which
I've also read and enjoyed. Somebody's Fool now extends the story of
Sully and next two generations to a satisfying trilogy.

For years I would go to Basement Books and look at fiction at the RUS
authors, hoping there would be a new Russo out that I could get at a
discount price. I saw a lot of Salman Rushdie's books as a
consequence, but did pick up a few Russos over the years.

The only downside to Somebody's Fool is the enormous size that
Allen and Unwin have printed it in (they did the same thing with
Everybody's Fool). If I ever see a sensibly sized copy of these books,
especially under the Vintage label, I'll rebuy books 2 and 3 of the
Fool Trilogy.

A satisfying arc of Somebody's Fool is Peter Sullivan growing into a
Sully figure and Janey becoming like her mother Ruth; and finally
overcoming her addiction to bad men. I won't put too many of the plot
points in this review, as that would spoil a re-read a few years
later, the important point to note is that Russo's writing is as sharp
and funny as ever. It's just a pity the book is so oversized and
difficult to carry and read.

                                            23rd February 2025.

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
