THE PENGUIN BOOK QUIZ by James Walton

2019. Penguin Books. Paperback.

This is an excellent quiz on books, both literary and popular,
by James Walton who has impeccable credentials in the worlds of both
quizzing and books. He's presented a book quiz on radio for over ten
years and also reviewed books for lots of magazines including The
Spectator.

The book is done in Orange retro penguin style, large format. It
weighs in at 346 pages but the quiz pages have a lot of whitespace
which makes for easy viewing and also quick page turning. Once I'd
done the 10 quizzes (each one takes about 10 minutes of fun reading
and memory jogging) I read an excellent dense 22 page introduction to
the world of both quizzes and Penguin books. The part on Penguin Books
is a nice summary of the story about Allen Lane, "Penguin Special"
which I read many years ago.

I found the quizzes themselves excellent; most of the questions I got
wrong were on UK celebrity chefs and TV personalities; I can't
complain about the quiz being UK-centric because Penguin Books is a UK
company and the quizzes are based on UK books! The third part of each
quiz, "odd-man-out" or "order these three books" was the hardest part
of each quiz.

This was just about the ideal book for me, someone who loves both
reading and quizzes. Maybe I should try to hunt down James Walton's
radio book quizzes on the Internet. I'll re-read this book in about
six months, giving me time to forget the answers so that the re-read
will be fresher.

                                             13th May 2024

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
